```json
{
    "date"   : "Fri Aug 10 2012 23:20:56 GMT+1000 (EST)"
  , "title"  : "Towards Bean v1.0 (or: How event managers do their thing)"
  , "base"   : "bean_v1"
  , "author" : "Rod Vagg"
}
```

<b><a href="https://github.com/fat/bean">Bean</a></b> is the event manager included in <b><a href="http://ender.no.de/">Ender's</a></b> starter pack, <i>The Jeesh</i>. If you want to do jQuery-style <code>bind()</code>, <code>on()</code> etc. with Ender, then use Bean.

At the time of writing, we're on version <i>0.4.11</i>. There's also been a <i>0.5-wip</i> ("work in progress") branch for a while now that's included some improvements I've been holding off for a major release. I also put together a <a href="https://github.com/fat/bean/issues/milestones">0.5 milestone</a> on GitHub with some ideas. The major item impacting on the external API is a switch to the <code>on()</code> argument order found in <a href="http://api.prototypejs.org/dom/Event/on/">Prototype</a>, <a href="http://api.jquery.com/on/">jQuery</a> and <a href="https://github.com/madrobby/zepto/blob/753e80114f0618bd7ce865508e0ff2085d0bfb5f/src/event.js#L166">Zepto</a>. Considering the significance of the changes in the new branch, I think that perhaps a <b>1.0</b> release would be warranted.

<h3>Delegated <code>on()</code> argument ordering</h3>

Until now, Bean's <code>add()</code> has followed the same argument ordering as jQuery's <code><a href="http://api.jquery.com/bind/">bind()</a></code> for standard events, and <code><a href="http://api.jquery.com/delegate/">delegate()</a></code> for delegated events; so the signature looks something like this: <code>.add([selector, ]events, handlerFn)</code> (.on() exists in the Ender bridge and does the same thing). The proposal was to change this to match the other major libraries', arguably more sensible, <code>.on(events[, selector], handlerFn)</code>. This is now in the <i>0.5-wip</i> branch.

<h3>Performance</h3>

Speed was another issue that I wanted to address for a new major release. Benchmarks have shown that Bean is under-performing in some areas and I believed it could do better. The process of analysing and addressing Bean's performance has been quite instructional and I've narrowed it down to some key trade-offs that authors of event libraries have deal with. One of the reasons I wanted to write this post was to outline some of these and solicit some feedback from the wider Bean-using community.

<h4>Performance trade-off #1: record keeping</h4>

When you call <code>Element.attachEvent()</code> (IE8 and below) or <code>Element.addEventListener()</code> (new browsers) you pass in a handler function that's called when the event in question is triggered. To stop that function being triggered you have to call <code>Element.detachEvent()</code> or <code>Element.removeEventListener()</code> and pass in that same function so the browser knows which handler you want to remove. Event managers like Bean and jQuery make that easier so you can do things like <code>bean.remove(element, 'click')</code> to remove all handlers; but Bean needs to know which handlers it needs to remove so it must keep records. The biggest change back in v0.4 of Bean was a switch to an internal registry that didn't molest DOM elements, external objects or external functions to attach identifiers so they could be later recalled. Previously, a <code>__uid</code> property was set on each DOM element that you set a handler on and your handler function itself had a <code>__uid</code> property set on it. jQuery does this too, it has a global <code>jQuery.guid</code> integer that it increments and attaches to pretty much everything. Don't be surprised when you find a <code>guid</code> property on your object/function/element once jQuery has got its fingers on it. This type of record keeping is fast and easy, but molesting other people's objects isn't very cool and there are alternatives.

My first major contribution to Bean was to switch it over to a registry similar to the one Deigo Perini has implemented in <a href="https://github.com/dperini/nwevents/">NWEvents</a>. Bean now iterates and compares rather than looking up directly. It adds some overhead but I managed to squeeze in enough performance gains in other areas to make v0.4 generally faster than v0.3 even with the registry switch.

<h4>Performance trade-off #2: synthesising the Event object</h4>

The DOM Level 3 Events specification outlines a base <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-3-Events/#interface-Event">Event object interface</a>, along with specific event types that extend this and add extra attributes and methods. This is the object that you get when your event handler is triggered by the DOM, it's the object that you read <code>keyCode</code> from for keyboard events and the object that you call <code>preventDefault()</code> and <code>stopPropagation()</code> on.

The problem we have is that nobody actually implements the full spec as-is and we also have to deal with older browsers which have all sorts of interesting attributes and methods on their Event objects. The stand-out difference is that in IE8 and below, instead of calling <code>Event.preventDefault()</code> to prevent the default browser behaviour (e.g. following a link click or accepting a keypress), you have to <code>Event.returnValue = false</code>. And, instead of calling <code>Event.stopPropagation()</code> to stop the event from bubbling up the DOM to parent elements, you have <code>Event.cancelBubble = true</code>.

So, the standard practice is for event managers to either create an Event object for you and set up the properties and methods based on the underlying <i>actual</i> Event object (as in Bean, jQuery and most others), or <i>fix</i> the Event object (as in Prototype). The performance trade-off here is that this is not cheap to do, especially for <i>every</i> event you need to react to. But there are ways to speed it up.

In Bean v0.4 we introduced a property "whitelist" which provided significant performance gains. In v0.3 and prior, Bean would try and copy every property and method that it found on the original Event object over to a new object (<code>{}</code>). It turns out that accessing some of these properties on some browsers comes with a significant performance penalty, and often you just don't need them because they are specific quirks of individual browsers. Since v0.4, Bean has been only looking at a list of properties that it expects to find on particular types of event objects and ignoring the rest. In the 0.5-wip branch, I started caching event "fixers" for each event type as they were encountered, so it's a little faster to figure out exactly what needs to be done as events are triggered.

But, it's still costly, so that's where the next performance trade-off comes in.

<h4>Performance trade-off #3: hijacking event handler management</h4>

Given that synthesising the Event object is so costly and you end up doing it multiple times for a single event if you have more than one handler for that event, event managers have a trick up their sleeve to alleviate the pain. NWMatcher, jQuery and others don't directly attach your event handler to the DOM, instead, they attach a single internal handler that is responsible for triggering any number of handlers you register for a given event on a particular element.

Consider the following code:

```js
for (var i = 0; i < 100; i++) {
  $('#el').bind('click', function () { console.log(i) })
}
```

This code would work in Bean and jQuery, the difference is that Bean v0.4 and prior adds 100 handlers directly to the DOM element to listen to that event while jQuery adds just one and iterates over the others when the event is triggered. The new version of Bean does the same.

The reason this helps with performance is that we don't have to make a new Event object each time the event is triggered, we can reuse the same one across handlers.

There's another major advantage to this approach, and perhaps a more important reason to implement an event manager this way: you get to hide some odd browser quirks. As <a href="https://twitter.com/kitcambridge">Kit Cambridge</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/kitcambridge/status/230775465542049792">noted recently</a>, older versions of Internet Explorer generally fire their handlers in LIFO order, yet W3C specs for <code>addEventListener()</code> specifies FIFO order! In fact, it's even worse because the <a href="https://twitter.com/kitcambridge/status/230775716239794176">Microsoft documentation</a> says that they may actually be triggered in <i>random order</i>! But, if you only have a single real handler then you get complete control over order.

The benefits go further though, we get to implement some nice features that are completely missing from older browsers and even some current browsers. The most notable is <code>Event.stopImmediatePropagation()</code>. This is a method that was introduced with DOM Level 3, so it's missing from IE8 and below, but surprisingly it's also missing from the current version of Opera! Perhaps the pressure is off because jQuery implements it as part of their relatively complete DOM Level 3 Events implementation using this single-DOM-handler method.

<h5><code>stopImmediatePropagation()</code></h5>

Bean has included a custom <code>Event.stop()</code> method since v0.4, it's modelled off the <a href="http://api.prototypejs.org/dom/Event/stop/">same method</a> in Prototype. It's also found in MooTools and and some other libraries. This method combines both <code>Event.stopPropagation()</code> and <code>Event.preventDefault()</code> in a short and sweet little utility method. But, <i>"stop"</i> is slightly misleading, because you can stop the default behaviour of the browser and you can stop the event bubbling up the DOM, but you <b>can't stop other event handlers for this event <i>at this element</i> from firing</b>. That's where the new <code>Event.stopImmediatePropagation()</code> comes in: it halts the processing of the event handler list for the current event at the current element (i.e. it can be used at any point in the bubbling process and it'll stop processing just the handlers at the element it was called at).

If an event manager takes the single-DOM-handler approach, it has to care about <code>stopImmediatePropagation()</code> because it no longer has an affect in the browser since the browser only has a single handler to worry about. But, you also get the benefit that it now applies to any browser the event manager supports.

At the time of writing this article I haven't decided whether I think that <code>Event.stop()</code> should also bundle <code>Event.stopImmediatePropagation()</code>. I'm leaning towards including it because <i>"stop"</i> should mean <b>stop</b> and the combination of all three methods would certainly do this.

<h3>List of changes for Bean 1.0</h3>

<b><code>on()</code> argument ordering</b>: the new signature is now <code>.on(events[, selector], handlerFn)</code>, which will work on both Bean as a standalone library and when bundled in Ender. In Ender, the following aliases also pass through <code>on()</code> so the same arguments work: <code>addListener()</code>, <code>bind()</code>, <code>listen()</code> and <code>one()</code> (which of course will only trigger once). Plus all the specific shortcuts such as <code>click()</code>, <code>keyup()</code> etc. although these methods have the first argument hardwired.

<code>add()</code> is left intact with the same argument ordering for standalone Bean and <code>delegate()</code> has the same signature, the same as jQuery's equivalent.

<b><code>off()</code> is the new <code>remove()</code></b>: although <code>remove()</code> is still available in standalone Bean.

<b>Bean attaches a single handler to the DOM for each event type on each element</b>: as outlined above, Bean will iterate over all handlers for each triggered and (mostly) reuse the same Event object for each call.

<b><code>Event.stopImmediatePropagation()</code>:</b> is available across all supported browsers, it will stop the processing of all handlers for the current event at the current element (i.e. the event will still bubble).

<b>The selector engine argument to <code>add()</code> is now completely removed</b>: you used to have to pass a selector engine in as the last argument for delegated events. Now you must set it once at start-up with <code>setSelectorEngine()</code>. This is automatically taken care of for you in an Ender build.

<b>A duplicate-handler check is no longer performed when you <i>add</i></b>: performance testing showed that this was a massive slow-down and is simply not something that Bean should be responsible for. If you want to add the same handler twice then that's your business and responsibility.

<b>Namespace matching for event <code>fire()</code>ing now matches namespaces using an <i>and</i> instead of an <code>or</code>:</b> so for example, firing namespaces 'a.b' will fire any event with <i>both</i> 'a' and 'b' rather than <i>either</i> 'a' or 'b'. This is compatible with jQuery and is arguably a much more sensible and helpful way to deal with namespaces. You can find some discussion on this <a href="https://github.com/fat/bean/pull/68">on GitHub</a>.

<b>Lots of internal improvements for speed, code size, etc.</b>.

<h3>Deconstructing performance (benchmarks)</h3>

We've had a benchmark suite since v0.4 to help measure the impact of changes, so I've extended it to help compare some versions of Bean. The benchmarks use <a href="http://benchmarkjs.com/">benchmark.js</a>.

There are 3 versions of Bean included here:

<ul>
  <li><b>Bean 0.4</b>: The current release of Bean, specifically version 0.4.11-1, source <a href="https://github.com/fat/bean/tree/3ded4e905ef89a344729953be69e438583968679">here</a>.</li>
  <li><b>Bean 0.5a</b>: An unreleased version of Bean in the 0.5-wip branch. Specifically most of the changes listed above are included here <i>except</i> for the single-DOM-handler change. This is here to assess the impact of this change and deciding whether it's a worthwhile "improvement". Source <a href="https://github.com/fat/bean/tree/989f33520c1ef6cb07e138a4176b14f3184adef6">here</a>.</li>
  <li><b>Bean 1.0a</b>: The main difference between this and 0.5a is the single-DOM-handler change. Source <a href="https://github.com/fat/bean/tree/4bcf05ffe12cfcf0bf8744d2ebc1627c554eed92">here</a>.</li>
</ul>

I'll have some notes about my own analysis of these numbers below but first I should mention that these benchmarks are not particularly helpful in showing how the libraries perform with real use patterns. I consider them to mainly be proxies for identifying the performance of particular behaviours within the libraries. You'll note that there are a lot of tests for <code>add()</code> / <code>on()</code>, that's simply because that's the easiest to test reliably and also because I haven't been bothered coming up useful with tests for other things. It's very difficult to test the actual event triggering which would be the most interesting bit, although the <code>fire()</code> tests give us a little bit of insight. The tests at the bottom try to capture a full add/fire/remove cycle, but even this isn't even particularly helpful. These benchmarks can be found in the Bean repo so if you want to tinker then feel free, I'd love to have additional input.

So, more so than most benchmarks, take these with a very large grain of salt or two!

<i>(The numbers are ops/sec, so higher is better in all cases)</i>

<style>
table.results { font-family: "Lucida Grande", "Lucida Sans Unicode", Verdana, sans-serif; margin-bottom: 1.4em; }
table.results th:first-child, table.results td { text-align: right; }
table.results tbody tr:nth-child(2n+1) { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0.075); }
table.results tr > * { padding: 0 3px; }
</style>

<h4>Chrome</h4>

<table class="results">
  <thead>
    <tr><th></th>
    <th>Bean 0.4</th>
    <th>Bean 0.5a</th>
    <th>Bean 1.0a</th>
    <th>NWEvents</th>
    <th>jQuery</th>
  </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
  <tr><th>add(element, event, fn)</th><td>25,760</td><td>66,580</td><td>185,147</td><td>18,133</td><td>142,161</td></tr>
  <tr><th>add(unique element, event, fn)</th><td>33,024</td><td>99,208</td><td>36,481</td><td>18,634</td><td>50,554</td></tr>
  <tr><th>add(element, custom, fn)</th><td>28,728</td><td>56,607</td><td>165,189</td><td>11,248</td><td>119,593</td></tr>
  <tr><th>add(unique element, custom, fn)</th><td>36,150</td><td>78,260</td><td>34,308</td><td>24,409</td><td>44,761</td></tr>
  <tr><th>add(element, event.namespace, fn)</th><td>30,082</td><td>64,435</td><td>189,468</td><td></td><td>136,486</td></tr>
  <tr><th>add(unique element, event.namespace, fn)</th><td>33,702</td><td>101,915</td><td>34,678</td><td></td><td>33,637</td></tr>
  <tr><th>add(element, selector, event, fn)</th><td>25,180</td><td>42,274</td><td>119,339</td><td>2,909</td><td>76,171</td></tr>
  <tr><th>add(unique element, selector, event, fn)</th><td>27,328</td><td>91,156</td><td>30,308</td><td>1,069</td><td>35,696</td></tr>
  <tr><th>add({})</th><td>15,594</td><td>27,312</td><td>59,434</td><td></td><td></td></tr>
  <tr><th>fire(event)</th><td>576</td><td>492</td><td>6,860</td><td>9,797</td><td>21,821</td></tr>
  <tr><th>fire(custom)</th><td>165,222</td><td>164,418</td><td>161,243</td><td>240,961</td><td>86,291</td></tr>
  <tr><th>fire(namespace)</th><td>29,742</td><td>28,721</td><td>27,666</td><td></td><td></td></tr>
  <tr><th>element add / click / remove</th><td>18,579</td><td>17,425</td><td>14,760</td><td>1,748</td><td>2,775</td></tr>
  <tr><th>element add / fire / remove</th><td>31,230</td><td>28,344</td><td>15,802</td><td>1,127</td><td>2,763</td></tr>
  <tr><th>object add / fire / remove</th><td>58,927</td><td>53,139</td><td>49,549</td><td>107,700</td><td>18,619</td></tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<h4>Firefox</h4>

<table class="results">
  <thead>
    <tr><th></th>
    <th>Bean 0.4</th>
    <th>Bean 0.5a</th>
    <th>Bean 1.0a</th>
    <th>NWEvents</th>
    <th>jQuery</th>
  </tr></thead>
  <tbody>
  <tr><th>add(element, event, fn)</th><td>20,404</td><td>45,030</td><td>100,546</td><td>13,826</td><td>63,159</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(unique element, event, fn)</th><td>16,708</td><td>67,417</td><td>19,625</td><td>16,810</td><td>29,130</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(element, custom, fn)</th><td>16,691</td><td>42,601</td><td>134,535</td><td>13,368</td><td>59,774</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(unique element, custom, fn)</th><td>24,159</td><td>55,312</td><td>21,235</td><td>13,475</td><td>27,877</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(element, event.namespace, fn)</th><td>17,414</td><td>53,639</td><td>101,427</td><td></td><td>55,321</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(unique element, event.namespace, fn)</th><td>23,735</td><td>59,751</td><td>22,034</td><td></td><td>27,576</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(element, selector, event, fn)</th><td>18,766</td><td>54,571</td><td>92,602</td><td>2,317</td><td>36,753</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(unique element, selector, event, fn)</th><td>22,094</td><td>56,026</td><td>16,705</td><td>964</td><td>22,102</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add({})</th><td>9,126</td><td>17,104</td><td>32,093</td><td></td><td></td>
  </tr><tr><th>fire(event)</th><td>260</td><td>266</td><td>3,391</td><td>3,120</td><td>11,154</td>
  </tr><tr><th>fire(custom)</th><td>61,845</td><td>59,950</td><td>61,742</td><td>93,033</td><td>45,978</td>
  </tr><tr><th>fire(namespace)</th><td>28,910</td><td>27,379</td><td>23,127</td><td></td><td></td>
  </tr><tr><th>element add / click / remove</th><td>7,644</td><td>6,220</td><td>6,005</td><td>1,284</td><td>4,845</td>
  </tr><tr><th>element add / fire / remove</th><td>11,288</td><td>10,954</td><td>7,458</td><td>788</td><td>9,115</td>
  </tr><tr><th>object add / fire / remove</th><td>45,165</td><td>37,934</td><td>37,306</td><td>38,097</td><td>12,490</td>
  </tr></tbody>
</table>

<h4>IE9</h4>

<table class="results">
  <thead>
    <tr><th></th>
    <th>Bean 0.4</th>
    <th>Bean 0.5a</th>
    <th>Bean 1.0a</th>
    <th>NWEvents</th>
    <th>jQuery</th>
  </tr></thead>
  <tbody>
  <tr><th>add(element, event, fn)</th><td>925</td><td>944</td><td>209,714</td><td>4,321</td><td>117,343</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(unique element, event, fn)</th><td>13,559</td><td>113,944</td><td>10,568</td><td>3,012</td><td>58,929</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(element, custom, fn)</th><td>946</td><td>1,004</td><td>219,631</td><td>4,329</td><td>128,570</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(unique element, custom, fn)</th><td>7,557</td><td>123,288</td><td>12,620</td><td>3,191</td><td>32,610</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(element, event.namespace, fn)</th><td>880</td><td>826</td><td>87,932</td><td></td><td>53,737</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(unique element, event.namespace, fn)</th><td>11,823</td><td>103,977</td><td>12,001</td><td></td><td>28,053</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(element, selector, event, fn)</th><td>655</td><td>802</td><td>57,619</td><td>382</td><td>21,159</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add(unique element, selector, event, fn)</th><td>11,649</td><td>96,597</td><td>11,404</td><td>139</td><td>24,756</td>
  </tr><tr><th>add({})</th><td>53</td><td>49</td><td>17,735</td><td></td><td></td>
  </tr><tr><th>fire(event)</th><td>290,543</td><td>286,385</td><td>293,547</td><td>71,396</td><td>22,794</td>
  </tr><tr><th>fire(custom)</th><td>229,241</td><td>223,189</td><td>216,943</td><td>78,395</td><td>23,081</td>
  </tr><tr><th>fire(namespace)</th><td>17,507</td><td>11,848</td><td>16,018</td><td></td><td></td>
  </tr><tr><th>element add / click / remove</th><td>10,228</td><td>9,697</td><td>9,260</td><td>478</td><td>8,345</td>
  </tr><tr><th>element add / fire / remove</th><td>13,062</td><td>10,587</td><td>18,577</td><td>155</td><td>6,094</td>
  </tr><tr><th>object add / fire / remove</th><td>30,924</td><td>29,096</td><td>28,904</td><td>39,761</td><td>7,634</td>
  </tr></tbody>
</table>

First, let me say that the IE results don't make a whole lot of sense so I'm going to suggest that the Chrome and Firefox benchmarks are the best indicators of general performance characteristics across browsers. The IE results have similar patterns to the others but there's way too much strangeness in there for me to take them seriously! IE8 has difficulty running all the benchmarks without locking up and I don't care enough to persevere there so I'm ignoring that too. Safari crashes and Opera has very similar results to Firefox and Chrome.

<i>(Just to clarify, it's only the benchmarks that have trouble running in older versions of IE, the Bean test suite still runs on IE6 and above and has been beefed up even more in the 0.5-wip branch.)</i>

<h4>Some observations</h4>

<ul>
  <li>The gains for <code>add()</code> from Bean v0.4 to v0.5a are largely from removing the <b>duplicate handler check</b>.</li>
  <li>The reason for the duplicate tests for <b><i>"element"</i> vs <i>"unique element"</i> in the <code>add()</code> benchmarks</b> is to demonstrate the costs and benefits involved the single-DOM-handler model. You can see that the numbers switch between the non-unique / unique tests for Bean v0.5a and v1.0a. Also jQuery suffers significantly when you feed it unique elements because it has to add DOM handlers each time.</li>
  <li>The poor performance for Bean v0.4 and v0.5a in <b><code>fire()</code> benchmarks</b> is mostly attributed to <b>Event object synthesising</b>, rather than the speed of the browser-native handler list management. This is important because firing native-style events (e.g. <code>fire('click')</code>, which is what we're testing here) is not a common activity but we're having to synthesize the event object each time a handler is triggered. So, this is where Bean finds the most <i>win</i> in switching to a single-DOM-handler model.</li>
  <li>Bean loses performance between v0.5a and v1.0a in the unique element <code>add()</code> benchmarks, this can mostly be explained by the <b>overhead of managing the root handler that it needs to attach to the DOM</b>. The handler is stored in the internal registry and each time you <code>add()</code> it needs to work out if you already have a root handler attached to the DOM or not for the given event / element. jQuery gets to take some shortcuts by polluting the DOM and handler functions with <code>guid</code> properties. However, the numbers suggest to me that there is some additional performance that could be squeezed out of Bean in this area.</li>
  <li>Bean is fairly liberal with its <b>whitelist of properties</b> to copy from the original Event object, jQuery is a bit more restrictive with its similar system, this may slow Bean down very slightly.</li>
  <li><b>Delegated events</b> are not represented well here, but the results would be very interesting because of the additional work required.</li>
</ul>

<h3>File size</h3>

A lot of users of Bean are file-size-sensitive, so it's important to highlight that there are costs to these performance improvements. Minified, gzipped, the sizes for each of these versions of Bean are:


<table class="results">
  <tbody>
    <tr><th>Bean 0.4</th><td>3870 bytes</td></tr>
    <tr><th>Bean 0.5a</th><td>3959 bytes</td></tr>
    <tr><th>Bean 1.0a</th><td>4176 bytes</td></tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

I've tried <i>really</i> hard to keep the size under 4kb but the additional overhead in managing the single-DOM-handler is too much to achieve that, even though I've managed to shave many precious bytes off in other areas of the code in the process (which unfortunately can't be seen in these numbers!).

We're still well under the minified, gzipped size of the jQuery events module by itself, even though we implement very similar functionality and jQuery gets to leverage lots of internal sugar not contained within the events module.

<h3>Request for feedback</h3>

After all that, what I really want is feedback! At this point I'm happy to release a proper version 1.0, I think it's major enough to warrant a jump past 0.5. I'd really like to hear feedback from people that have doubts that the changes are worth it, particularly the single-DOM-handler change.

<h3>Using the 1.0 pre-release</h3>

I've started using it in production and am very happy with the results so far, I'd love to have feedback from anyone else who wants to give it a spin.

The new version of Bean is in npm with the tag <i>dev</i> so you can include it in your Ender builds by referring to <i>bean@dev</i> as the package name.

For stand-alone, you can grab it from the <a href="https://github.com/fat/bean/tree/0.5-wip">0.5-wip branch</a> on GitHub.

Thanks for getting this far!