```json
{
    "date"   : "Sat Sep 08 2012 22:41:12 GMT+1000 (EST)"
  , "title"  : "Announcing Bean v1.0.0"
  , "base"   : "bean-v1"
  , "author" : "Rod Vagg"
}
```

In my <a href="http://rod.vagg.org/2012/08/bean_v1/" title="Towards Bean v1.0 (or: How event managers do their thing)">previous post</a> about Bean I discussed in detail the work that has gone in to a v1 release and how it will differ from the v0.4 branch.

Bean version 1.0.0 has now been released, you can download it from the <a href="https://github.com/fat/bean">GitHub repository</a> or you can fetch it from <a href="https://npmjs.org/package/bean">npm</a> for your Ender builds.

Here's a quick summary of the changes, but for a more in-depth look you should refer to my <a href="http://rod.vagg.org/2012/08/bean_v1/" title="Towards Bean v1.0 (or: How event managers do their thing)">previous post</a>.

 > <b><code>on()</code> argument ordering</b>: the new signature is now <code>.on(events[, selector], handlerFn)</code>, which will work on both Bean as a standalone library and when bundled in Ender. In Ender, the following aliases also pass through <code>on()</code> so the same arguments work: <code>addListener()</code>, <code>bind()</code>, <code>listen()</code> and <code>one()</code> (which of course will only trigger once). Plus all the specific shortcuts such as <code>click()</code>, <code>keyup()</code> etc. although these methods have the first argument hardwired.

 > <code>add()</code> is left intact with the same argument ordering for standalone Bean and <code>delegate()</code> has the same signature, the same as jQuery's equivalent.

 > <b><code>off()</code> is the new <code>remove()</code></b>: although <code>remove()</code> is still available in standalone Bean.

 > <b>Bean attaches a single handler to the DOM for each event type on each element</b>: as outlined above, Bean will iterate over all handlers for each triggered and (mostly) reuse the same Event object for each call.

 > <b><code>Event.stopImmediatePropagation()</code>:</b> is available across all supported browsers, it will stop the processing of all handlers for the current event at the current element (i.e. the event will still bubble).

 > <b>The selector engine argument to <code>add()</code> is now completely removed</b>: you used to have to pass a selector engine in as the last argument for delegated events. Now you must set it once at start-up with <code>setSelectorEngine()</code>. This is automatically taken care of for you in an Ender build.

 > <b>A duplicate-handler check is no longer performed when you <i>add</i></b>: performance testing showed that this was a massive slow-down and is simply not something that Bean should be responsible for. If you want to add the same handler twice then that's your business and responsibility.

 > <b>Namespace matching for event <code>fire()</code>ing now matches namespaces using an <i>and</i> instead of an <code>or</code>:</b> so for example, firing namespaces 'a.b' will fire any event with <i>both</i> 'a' and 'b' rather than <i>either</i> 'a' or 'b'. This is compatible with jQuery and is arguably a much more sensible and helpful way to deal with namespaces. You can find some discussion on this <a href="https://github.com/fat/bean/pull/68">on GitHub</a>.

 > <b>Lots of internal improvements for speed, code size, etc.</b>.

There was one remaining question to be resolved&mdash;whether <code>Event.stop()</code> would also trigger <code>Event.stopImmediatePropagation()</code>. I've decided to <b>not</b> include it and leave it to the user to decide whether they want to prevent triggering of other listeners on the same event/element.

And that's it! Please give it a spin and open an issue on GitHub if you have any bugs to report or questions to be answered.